[docs] Create a best practices article (#5603)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/basic-guides/best-practices.md

Write less E2E tests. End-to-end tests are slow by nature, their amount should be drastically lower than that of unit or integration tests.

## Smart Assertions

In end-to-end web testing, unpredictable factors (like network lag, processor, or memory bottlenecks in containers) can interfere with the assertions and produce inconsistent test results. Such tests are inconclusive (sometimes called 'flaky').

TestCafe includes a [Smart Assertion Query Mechanism](../../guides/basic-guides/assert.md#smart-assertion-query-mechanism). This mechanism introduces wait time for all the assertions: if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout. That reduces random impact and stabilizes the tests without performance trade-offs.

The following example demonstrates a common mistake:

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with Selector', async t => {
    const developerNameInput = Selector('#developer-name');

    await t.typeText(developerNameInput, 'Peter');

    //an awaited selector doesn't update and produces unstable test results. Avoid it.

>     const developerName = await Selector('#developer-name').value;

Author: Yes, it's a property in this instance. But the point I'm trying to convey here is: `Don't await selectors`, so I'd leave it as is.

>     const developerName = await Selector('#developer-name').value;

Reviewer: ok

>     //

Author: edited out

            .typeText(developerNameInput, 'Jack')
            .expect(developerName).eql('Jack'); // fails
});
```

In this snippet, the `developerName` is initialized with the value of a Selector, but because of the `await` keyword, the value is calculated once and doesn't update. This disables the smart assertions query mechanism and leads to inconclusive results.

To enable the mechanism, omit the `await` keyword:

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with Selector', async t => {
    const developerNameInput = Selector('#developer-name');

    await t.typeText(developerNameInput, 'Peter');

    const developerName = Selector('#developer-name').value;

    await t
            .expect(developerName).eql('Peter')
            .typeText(developerNameInput, 'Jack')
            .expect(developerName).eql('Jack'); // passes
});
```

The `developerName` is now initialized with a re-executable Selector API promise. When a test controller receives this promise, it enables the smart assertion query mechanism so TestCafe can wait for the value to update.

> > The smart assertion query mechanism works with Client Functions and promises created by TestCafe Selector API. Use the `await` keyword with user-created promises and promises returned from third-party libraries.

Author: edited

This rule applies to ClientFunctions as well.

The test below yields inconsistent results:

```js
import { Selector, ClientFunction } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with ClientFunction', async t => {

>     const getValue        = ClientFunction(() => document.getElementById('preferred-interface').value)

Author: edited

    const interfaceSelect = Selector('#preferred-interface');
    const interfaceOption = interfaceSelect.find('option');
    const value           = await getValue();

    await t
        .click(interfaceSelect)
        .click(interfaceOption.withText('JavaScript API'))

>         .expect(value).eql('JavaScript API')

Author: edited

});
```

In this example, the client function obtains the value of a drop-down element. This value is then passed to the `t.expect` method. Since `getValue()` is called with await, the return value gets resolved instantly and never updates. The smart assertion query mechanism doesn't apply and the test fails.

To solve the issue, pass the client function without the `await` keyword:

```js
import { Selector, ClientFunction } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with ClientFunction', async t => {
    const getValue = ClientFunction(() => document.getElementById('preferred-interface').value)

    const interfaceSelect = Selector('#preferred-interface');
    const interfaceOption = interfaceSelect.find('option');

>     const value           =  getValue();

Author: Yes, I wanted to highlight this aspect.

The [Page Model](../../guides/concepts/page-model.md) article covers the use of page objects in greater detail.

A code example is available in the [testcafe-examples](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples/tree/master/examples/use-page-model) repository.

## Use of Roles for Login

Handle authentication during your tests with [User Roles](../../guides/advanced-guides/authentication.md#user-roles). Roles allow you to wrap authentication logic and credentials in a reusable object.

Define roles with the [Role](../../reference/test-api/role/constructor.md) constructor and include them in your tests with the [t.useRole](../../reference/test-api/testcontroller/userole.md) method. The following example makes use of two user roles:

```js
import { Role } from 'testcafe';

const regularUser = Role('http://example.com/login', async t => {
    await t
        .typeText('#login', 'TestUser')
        .typeText('#password', 'testpass')
        .click('#sign-in');
});

const admin = Role('http://example.com/login', async t => {
    await t
        .typeText('#login', 'Admin')
        .typeText('#password', 'adminpass')
        .click('#sign-in');

> fixture `My Fixture`;

Author: yeah, you're right

test('My test', async t => {
    await t
        .useRole(role);
});
```

See the [Authentication](../../guides/advanced-guides/authentication.md) article for more in-depth information.

## File Structure

> Follow these guidelines to keep your test structure manageable and "clean":

Author: > Keep every Role in a separate file. This enables TestCafe to optimize the process when the same Role is reused.

* Selectors shouldn't be too generic. Otherwise, they may return different elements after each markup change. For example, `Selector(‘div > button’)` can match multiple elements simultaneously.

* Selectors shouldn’t rely on element parameters that might change. For instance, `Selector('[style*="background-color: red"]')` uses a CSS style that changes often.

* Selectors should remain readable. Selectors should be easy to understand (by you or another developer) for as long as the test is maintained. For instance, it may be difficult to understand which element corresponds to the following selector: `Selector(‘div’).find(‘pre’).nextSibling(-1)`. In contrast, `Selector(‘#topContainer’).find(‘.child’).withText(‘Add item’)` is much easier to read.

* Selectors should reflect the user’s point of view. Since TestCafe supports end-to-end testing, it’s a good idea to build selectors that identify elements as an end-user would. For instance, `Selector(‘form’).find(‘[name=”btn-foo-123”]’)` might be stable, but it is written from the programmer’s perspective rather than from the user’s point of view.

> Use custom attributes (like `data-testid`) whose sole purpose is to identify items with TestCafe. These attributes are unlikely to change during development and enable you to rewrite your Selectors rarer.

Reviewer 2: Looks like this paragraph and the other two below should also be elements of the list, shouldn't they (missing `*` at the start of the paragraph)?
```
 * Use custom attributes
```

Author: ` Use custom attributes` could use a bullet because it's about writing the selectors themselves.
The other two are more strategic overall tips, so I'd leave them as paragraphs. Plus, the list is almost too big as it is.

> Group the Selectors in a page model. It increases the resilience of your tests and helps remove redundant code.

Reviewer: let's add a link to the page model part

Author: added

---
layout: docs
title: Best Practices
permalink: /documentation/guides/basic-guides/best-practices.html
---
# Best Practices

This article describes the recommended ways to test with TestCafe and covers the following topics:

> * [E2E Tests Scope](#e2e-tests-scope)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [E2E Test Scope](#e2e-tests-scope)
```

* [Smart Assertions](#smart-assertions)
* [Use of Page Objects](#use-of-page-objects)
* [Use of Roles for Login](#use-of-roles-for-login)

> * [File structure](#file-structure)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [File Structure](#file-structure)
```

> * [Setup And Teardown](#setup-and-teardown)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Setup and Teardown](#setup-and-teardown)
```

> * [Selectors strategy](#selectors-strategy)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Selector Strategy](#selectors-strategy)
```

> ## E2E Tests Scope

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## E2E Test Scope
```

During the functional (also known as 'end-to-end') testing the application is tested from beginning to end. This is in contrast with unit or integration tests, which focus on a specific part (or integration between parts) of the application.

TestCafe is a tool built for functional testing. Do not use it to perform non-functional testing (like performance or load testing). Such tests would not yield any conclusive results.

> In your end-to-end tests, try to replicate real user's actions. Don't test exceptions - these are better tested with unit and integration tests. Test the general business logic of your application and abstain from rare use cases and edge scenarios.

Author: You're right, it should be:

> Test the general business logic of your application and refrain from **rare scenarios** and **edge cases.**

> In your end-to-end tests, try to replicate real user's actions. Don't test exceptions - these are better tested with unit and integration tests. Test the general business logic of your application and abstain from rare use cases and edge scenarios.

Reviewer 3: Thank you. Please apply your suggestion.

Write less E2E tests. End-to-end tests are slow by nature, their amount should be drastically lower than that of unit or integration tests.

## Smart Assertions

> In end-to-end web testing, unpredictable factors (like network lag, processor, or memory bottlenecks in containers) can interfere with the assertions and produce inconsistent test results. Such tests are inconclusive (sometimes called 'flaky').

Author: Can do

> TestCafe includes a [Smart Assertion Query Mechanism](../../guides/basic-guides/assert.md#smart-assertion-query-mechanism). This mechanism introduces wait time for all the assertions: if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout. That reduces random impact and stabilizes the tests without performance trade-offs.

Reviewer 3: Note that a colon is used when a list follows. In this case, it's better to replace it with a semicolon, or split the sentences into two. For example:

`This mechanism introduces a wait time for all assertions; if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout.`

or

`This mechanism introduces a wait time for all assertions. If an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout.`

The following example demonstrates a common mistake:

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with Selector', async t => {
    const developerNameInput = Selector('#developer-name');

    await t.typeText(developerNameInput, 'Peter');

>     //an awaited selector doesn't update and produces unstable test results. Avoid it.

Author: An awaited selector is one we prefix with a special `await` keyword. For example:

```js
const sel = Selector(''); //an 'ordinary' selector

const awaitedSel = **await** Selector(''); //an awaited selector
```

    await t
        .useRole(role);
});
```

See the [Authentication](../../guides/advanced-guides/authentication.md) article for more in-depth information.

## File Structure

Follow these guidelines to keep your test structure manageable and "clean":

* Use a page model to store Selectors and compound actions that are used across your app often. For instance, a page model function can contain all steps that are necessary to perform an action.

* Put all the page model files into one directory. If your application is divided logically into components or subsystems, split up the associated page model objects into separate files.

> You can find an example of a page model in the [testcafe-examples](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples/tree/master/examples/use-page-model) repository.

* Create a `testcaferc.json` file in the root directory of the project. It enables you to fine-tune your tests, which can be useful in CI/CD systems. For more information, read the [Configuration File](../../reference/configuration-file.md) article.

* Define one `fixture` in every test file. While it's technically possible to define multiple, it may lead to confusion as your suite grows.

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Author: > A `fixture` should aggregate related tests. For example, put all your authentication-related tests into one fixture.

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Reviewer 3: I see. Can we say "category" instead of "meaning"? For example:

`* A `fixture` should aggregate tests based on category or testing scenario.`

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Author: I've since reconsidered this sentence. It's now:

> A `fixture` should aggregate related tests. For example, put all your authentication-related tests into one fixture.

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the new suggestion. Can we make it more specific than "put"? For example, does the developer "insert" these tests into one fixture?

Also, "your" is not necessary. We can simply say "all authentication-related tests".

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Author: If 'place' works, I'd rather use it:

> A fixture should aggregate related tests. For example, place all authentication-related tests into one fixture.

If it doesn't 'insert' is fine (although I feel like it's a tad too specific):

> A fixture should aggregate related tests. For example, insert all authentication-related tests into one fixture.

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Reviewer 3: If you feel that 'insert' is too specific, then 'place' works. Please apply your suggestion:

`A fixture should aggregate related tests. For example, place all authentication-related tests into one fixture.`

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Author: Done

> * A `fixture`s should aggregate tests that relate to each other by meaning or testing scenario.

Reviewer 3: Thank you!

* In your test folder, create subfolders for tests that cover different subsystems of your application.

* Don't write long tests. Shorter test scenarios are easier to debug and can run concurrently.

* Any reused data (for example, large sets of reference values or forms inputs) is better stored in a dedicated directory. Consider a descriptive folder name (for instance, `data`).

With all the suggestions applied, your project's file structure might look like this:

```sh
.
├── .testcaferc.json
└── tests
    ├── |- test_group1/
    │   └── |-test1.js
    │       |-test2.js
    ├── |- test_group2/
    │   └── |-test1.js
    │       |-test2.js
    ├── |- page_model/
    │   └── |- page1.js
    │       |- page2.js
    ├── |- helpers/
    │   └── |- helper1.js
    │       |- helper2.js
    └── |-data
```

## Setup and Teardown

State management is an integral and important part of web testing. When your tests run, there are inevitably leftovers - database or local storage records, cache, or cookies. This data requires deletion during teardown. Extra steps your app requires to run (like adding records to the database) are performed during setup.

> One way to deal with this is to place the setup actions in the preceding test's `after` and `afterEach` hooks. While good for cleanup, these hooks create mutual dependence between your tests when used to set up for a following test. The success of a test is then influenced by a preceding one, which is not desirable.

Reviewer 3: 1) `While good for cleanup, these hooks create mutual dependence between your tests when used to set up for a following test.`

By "a following test" do you mean "the next test" or "subsequent tests"?

2) `The success of a test is then influenced by a preceding one, which is not desirable.`
Can we change this to:

`The success of a test is then influenced by the preceding test, which is not desirable.`

Author: 1. The next test
2. Absolutely. I edited this in

Consider a test that downloads a file and saves it to a folder. Since the file system persists between tests, this file requires deletion when the test is complete. This is better done with an `afterEach` hook:

```js
fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://example.com`
    .afterEach( async t => {
        await cleanDir();
    });

test('My test', async t => {
    //test actions
});
```

> While good for cleanup, `after` and `afterEach` hooks create mutual dependence between tests when used to set up for a following test. The success rate of a test is then influenced by a preceding one, which is not desirable. Such tests need to run in a specific order and can't run in parallel.

Reviewer 3: 1) `While good for cleanup, `after` and `afterEach` hooks create mutual dependence between tests when used to set up for a following test.`

By "a following test" do you mean "the next test" or "subsequent tests"?

2) `The success rate of a test is then influenced by a preceding one, which is not desirable.`
Can we change this to:

`The success rate of a test is then influenced by the preceding test, which is not desirable.`

Author: This is repetitive. I've refactored this piece

> Use `before` or `beforeEach` to fullfill your test's prerequisites (for example to create a file necessary for a successful test run):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use `before` or `beforeEach` to fullfill your test's prerequisites (for example, to create a file necessary for a successful test run):
```

```js
fixture `Another fixture`
    .page `http://example.com`
    .beforeEach( async t => {
        await setupFileSystem();
    });

test('Another test', async t => {
    //test actions
});
```

If the `before`/`beforeEach` setup is unsuccessful, the corresponding test does not run, which saves you time. If `after`/`afterEach` setup yields an error, the following test runs and probably fails due to the unsuccessful setup.

> To fulfill your test's prerequisites, use the `before` and `beforeEach` hooks. Clean up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.

Reviewer 3: `Clean up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.`

What are you cleaning up? For example, do you mean "Clean up the tests with..."

Author: We clean up the environment the tests run in. When the test finishes, we delete temporary files created during the test run.

Is that ok:

> Clean the environment up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.

Reviewer 3: Your suggestion is fine. Please apply this change.

Author: Done

> To fulfill your test's prerequisites, use the `before` and `beforeEach` hooks. Clean up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.

Author: ```suggestion
To fulfill your test's prerequisites, use the `before` and `beforeEach` hooks. Clean the environment up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.
```

* Selectors shouldn't be too generic. Otherwise, they may return different elements after each markup change. For example, `Selector(‘div > button’)` can match multiple elements simultaneously.

* Selectors shouldn’t rely on element parameters that might change. For instance, `Selector('[style*="background-color: red"]')` uses a CSS style that changes often.

* Selectors should remain readable. Selectors should be easy to understand (by you or another developer) for as long as the test is maintained. For instance, it may be difficult to understand which element corresponds to the following selector: `Selector(‘div’).find(‘pre’).nextSibling(-1)`. In contrast, `Selector(‘#topContainer’).find(‘.child’).withText(‘Add item’)` is much easier to read.

* Selectors should reflect the user’s point of view. Since TestCafe supports end-to-end testing, it’s a good idea to build selectors that identify elements as an end-user would. For instance, `Selector(‘form’).find(‘[name=”btn-foo-123”]’)` might be stable, but it is written from the programmer’s perspective rather than from the user’s point of view.

> * Use custom attributes (like `data-testid`) whose sole purpose is to identify items with TestCafe. These attributes are unlikely to change during development and enable you to rewrite your Selectors rarer.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by "rarer"? For example, do you mean:

`These attributes are unlikely to change during development, so you don't need to rewrite your Selectors as frequently.`

Author: ```suggestion
* Use custom attributes (like `data-testid`) whose sole purpose is to identify items with TestCafe. These attributes are unlikely to change during development, so you don't need to rewrite your Selectors as frequently.
```

Group the Selectors in a [page model](#use-of-page-objects). It increases the resilience of your tests and helps remove redundant code.

Use the Selectors extension plugins for pages built with JavaScript frameworks. These extensions allow you to create Selectors that are more native to every framework.

> Such plugins are available for the following popular front-end frameworks: [Angular](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-angular-selectors), [React](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-react-selectors), [Vue](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-vue-selectors).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Such plugins are available for the following popular front-end frameworks: [Angular](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-angular-selectors), [React](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-react-selectors), and [Vue](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-vue-selectors).
```

---
layout: docs
title: Best Practices
permalink: /documentation/guides/basic-guides/best-practices.html
---
# Best Practices

> This article describes the recommended ways to test with TestCafe and covers the following topics:

Reviewer 3: I'd like to avoid using the word "covers". Can we change it to the following?

```suggestion
This article describes the recommended ways to test with TestCafe. The main topics are as follows:
```

Author: Applied

Write fewer E2E tests. End-to-end tests are slow by nature, so the number of tests should be drastically lower than that of unit or integration tests.

## Smart Assertions

In end-to-end web testing, unpredictable factors (like network lag, processor speed, or memory bottlenecks in containers) can interfere with the assertions and produce inconsistent test results. Such tests are inconclusive (sometimes called 'flaky').

TestCafe includes a [Smart Assertion Query Mechanism](../../guides/basic-guides/assert.md#smart-assertion-query-mechanism). This mechanism introduces wait time for all the assertions; if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout. That reduces random impact and stabilizes the tests without performance trade-offs.

The following example demonstrates a common mistake:

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://devexpress.github.io/testcafe/example/`;

test('Assertion with Selector', async t => {
    const developerNameInput = Selector('#developer-name');

    await t.typeText(developerNameInput, 'Peter');

>     //an awaited selector doesn't update and produces unstable test results. Avoid it.

Author: ```suggestion
    //the selector prefixed with the "await" operator doesn't update and produces unstable test results. Avoid it.
```

        .click('#sign-in');
});

const admin = Role('http://example.com/login', async t => {
    await t
        .typeText('#login', 'Admin')
        .typeText('#password', 'adminpass')
        .click('#sign-in');
});

export { regularUser, admin };
```

`/tests/test_group1.js/test1.js:`

```js
import { regularUser, admin } from '../../roles/roles.js';

fixture `My Fixture`
    .page('../../my-page.html');

test('Regular user test', async t => {
    await t
        .useRole(regularUser);
});

test('Admin test', async t => {
    await t
        .useRole(admin);
});
```

See the [Authentication](../../guides/advanced-guides/authentication.md) article for more in-depth information.

## File Structure

Follow these guidelines to keep your test structure manageable and "clean":

* Use a page model to store Selectors and compound actions that are often used across your app. For instance, a page model function can contain all steps that are necessary to perform an action.

* Put all the page model files into one directory. If your application is divided logically into components or subsystems, split up the associated page model objects into separate files.

> > You can find an example of a page model in the [testcafe-examples](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples/tree/master/examples/use-page-model) repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> You can find a page model example in the [testcafe-examples](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-examples/tree/master/examples/use-page-model) repository.
```

Author: Applied

```js
fixture `My fixture`
    .page `http://example.com`
    .afterEach( async t => {
        await cleanDir();
    });

test('My test', async t => {
    //test actions
});
```

While good for cleanup, `after` and `afterEach` hooks create mutual dependence between your tests when used to set up for the next test. The success rate of a test is then influenced by the preceding test, which is not desirable. Such tests need to run in a specific order and can't run in parallel.

Use `before` or `beforeEach` to fullfill your test's prerequisites (for example, to create a file necessary for a successful test run):

```js
fixture `Another fixture`
    .page `http://example.com`
    .beforeEach( async t => {
        await setupFileSystem();
    });

test('Another test', async t => {
    //test actions
});
```

If the `before`/`beforeEach` setup is unsuccessful, the corresponding test does not run, which saves you time. If `after`/`afterEach` setup yields an error, the following test runs and probably fails due to the unsuccessful setup.

To fulfill your test's prerequisites, use the `before` and `beforeEach` hooks. Clean the environment up with the `after` and `afterEach` hooks.

> Use the `test.before` and `test.after` hooks to set a state that an individual test requires. Use the `fixture.beforeEach` and `fixture.afterEach` to set a common state that all the tests in the suite require.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the `test.before` and `test.after` hooks to set a state that an individual test requires. Use `fixture.beforeEach` and `fixture.afterEach` to set a common state that all the tests in the suite require.
```

> ## Selectors Strategy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Selector Strategy
```

> The [TestCafe Studio blog](https://community.devexpress.com/blogs/testcafe/archive/2020/06/10/testcafe-studio-v1-3-0-a-new-way-to-work-with-selectors.aspx#) covers the best ways to work with Selectors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [TestCafe Studio blog](https://community.devexpress.com/blogs/testcafe/archive/2020/06/10/testcafe-studio-v1-3-0-a-new-way-to-work-with-selectors.aspx#) explains the best ways to work with Selectors.
```

* [E2E Tests Scope](#e2e-tests-scope)
* [Smart Assertions](#smart-assertions)
* [Use of Page Objects](#use-of-page-objects)
* [Use of Roles for Login](#use-of-roles-for-login)
* [File structure](#file-structure)
* [Setup And Teardown](#setup-and-teardown)
* [Selectors strategy](#selectors-strategy)

## E2E Tests Scope

During the functional (also known as 'end-to-end') testing the application is tested from beginning to end. This is in contrast with unit or integration tests, which focus on a specific part (or integration between parts) of the application.

TestCafe is a tool built for functional testing. Do not use it to perform non-functional testing (like performance or load testing). Such tests would not yield any conclusive results.

In your end-to-end tests, try to replicate real user's actions. Don't test exceptions - these are better tested with unit and integration tests. Test the general business logic of your application and abstain from rare use cases and edge scenarios.

Write less E2E tests. End-to-end tests are slow by nature, their amount should be drastically lower than that of unit or integration tests.

## Smart Assertions

> In end-to-end web testing, unpredictable factors (like network lag, processor, or memory bottlenecks in containers) can interfere with the assertions and produce inconsistent test results. Such tests are inconclusive (sometimes called 'flaky').

Author: ```suggestion
In end-to-end web testing, unpredictable factors (like network lag, processor speed, or memory bottlenecks in containers) can interfere with the assertions and produce inconsistent test results. Such tests are inconclusive (sometimes called 'flaky').
```

> TestCafe includes a [Smart Assertion Query Mechanism](../../guides/basic-guides/assert.md#smart-assertion-query-mechanism). This mechanism introduces wait time for all the assertions: if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout. That reduces random impact and stabilizes the tests without performance trade-offs.

Author: ```suggestion
TestCafe includes a [Smart Assertion Query Mechanism](../../guides/basic-guides/assert.md#smart-assertion-query-mechanism). This mechanism introduces wait time for all the assertions; if an assertion fails, it retries multiple times within a timeout. That reduces random impact and stabilizes the tests without performance trade-offs.
```

* Don't write long tests. Shorter test scenarios are easier to debug and can run concurrently.

* Any reused data (for example, large sets of reference values or forms inputs) is better stored in a dedicated directory. Consider a descriptive folder name (for instance, `data`).

With all the suggestions applied, your project's file structure might look like this:

```sh
.
├── .testcaferc.json
└── tests
    ├── |- test_group1/
    │   └── |-test1.js
    │       |-test2.js
    ├── |- test_group2/
    │   └── |-test1.js
    │       |-test2.js
    ├── |- page_model/
    │   └── |- page1.js
    │       |- page2.js
    ├── |- helpers/
    │   └── |- helper1.js
    │       |- helper2.js
    ├── |- roles/
    │   └── |- roles.js
    └── |-data
```

## Setup and Teardown

State management is an integral and important part of web testing. When your tests run, there are inevitably leftovers - database or local storage records, cache, or cookies. This data requires deletion during teardown. Extra steps your app requires to run (like adding records to the database) are performed during setup.

> One way to deal with this is to place the setup actions in the preceding test's `after` and `afterEach` hooks. While good for cleanup, these hooks create mutual dependence between your tests when used to set up for a following test. The success of a test is then influenced by a preceding one, which is not desirable.

Author: ```suggestion
One way to deal with this is to place the setup actions in the preceding test's `after` and `afterEach` hooks. While good for cleanup, these hooks create mutual dependence between your tests when used to set up for the next test. The success of a test is then influenced by the preceding test, which is not desirable.
```
